React India 2019 Part 1 (#72)
asetalias/blog: content/post/Dabbling_with_react_@_React_India_2019.md

> +++

Author: Also, let me know if we are undergoing a blog change then should I keep writing in Markdown or what.

> 

Reviewer: Hey @vipulgupta2048 , Great piece of writing. Please remove these extra lines. Else, good to go from my side.

@Sc0rpi0n101 @swarnimarun  give it a look.

Author: As I mentioned, this was just a Part 1 of the blog, I intend to write more that's why I must have left them there. Thanks for that.

+++
title = "Dabbling with React @ React India 2019: A Tweet story"
slug = "reactindia2019-vipulgupta2048"
image = "images/react1.png"
date = "2019-10-07T10:10:00"
description = "My experience of India's first React conf, React India 2019"
disableComments = false
author = "Vipul Gupta"
categories = ["conferences"]
tags = ['React', 'GraphQL', 'javascript',  'vipulgupta2048', 'community', 'FOSS', 'Redux', 'India', 'React-Native', 'conferences']
+++

> Lush green trees, monsoon weather, soul cooling winds coming from the tumoultous waters of the beach where sounds of waves splashing over the dry sand can be heard by people walking by. Now, just imagine a tech conference on a piece of software that powers almost half of the web today at the place that I just described. How could you stop yourself? I couldn't. Here's a brief twitter story of my adventures at React India.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lush green trees, monsoon weather, soul cooling winds coming from the tumultuous waters of the beach where sounds of waves splashing over the dry sand can be heard by people walking by. Now, just imagine a tech conference on a piece of software that powers almost half of the web today at the place that I just described. How could you stop yourself? I couldn't. Here's a brief twitter story of my adventures at React India.
```

> React India was the first ever international, community-led beach conference that provided a platform for developers to share, discuss their insights and experiences with React and React Native. The three-day conference was the first of its kind in India broken into workshops and conference days with community talks from 26th September - 28th September 2019

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React India was the first-ever international, community-led beach conference that provided a platform for developers to share, discuss their insights and experiences with React and React Native. The three-day conference was the first of its kind in India broken into workshops and conference days with community talks from 26th September - 28th September 2019
```

Shouldn't it have a hypen?

Author: It should, I just don't like doing it. Will get it done.

> Before leaving for the conference, I decided to do something for the first time. It was to capture a picture of everyone I met at the conference and tweet about it, that way when the conference ends. I can write this blog much more easily. Now, you know why its a tweet story. 

Author: Could is past tense, hence a better choice.

## The Journey 

> The journey starts with me filling the diversity scholarship form for React India and in turn getting selected from a pool of hundreds. Happy to say, 9 other people who were selected were gems in their own fields as I had a marvellous time interacting with each and everyone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The journey starts with me filling the diversity scholarship form for React India and in turn getting selected from a pool of hundreds. Happy to say, the 9 other people who were selected were gems in their own fields. I had a marvelous time interacting with each and every one of them.
```

I think either 'each and every' something or 'everyone' would be better

> Hopped on the early morning flight to Goa and was met with brief patch of Goa rains with stormy weather. As we travelled to the South side of Goa with the bus filled of React India attendees.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I hopped on the early morning flight to Goa and was met with a brief patch of Goa rains with stormy weather. As we travelled to the South side of Goa with the bus filled with React India attendees.
```

Reviewer 2: were the rains meant for the flight or the bus trip. 
'cause the last sentence seems incomplete. As we 'did something' ....?

Author: Completed it, good catch.

> I hopped on an early morning flight to Goa and was met with a brief patch of Goa rains. We boarded the airport shuttle organised by React India, filled with fellow attendees. From there on we started for the beautiful south side of Goa, along the narrow lanes of the countryside where we saw colorful houses, cottages behind tall coconut trees everwhere the eye could wander.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I hopped on an early morning flight to Goa and was met with a brief patch of Goa rains. We boarded the airport shuttle arranged by React India, filled with fellow attendees. From there on, we started for the beautiful south side of Goa, along the narrow lanes of the countryside where we saw colorful houses, cottages behind tall coconut trees everywhere the eye could wander.
```

Shouldn't it be 'arranged'?

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">First up, catching up with <a href="https://twitter.com/bishnoi_pallavi?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@bishnoi_pallavi</a> from <a href="https://twitter.com/CodingBlocksIn?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@CodingBlocksIn</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/manvisinghwal?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@manvisinghwal</a> from <a href="https://twitter.com/Girlscript1?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@Girlscript1</a> on our early morning flight to Goa. <br><br>Skies look clear, and time for takeoff. React India here we come 🐣🚨 <a href="https://t.co/Yt3ZvsGAGC">pic.twitter.com/Yt3ZvsGAGC</a></p>&mdash; Vipul Gupta 🐣 (@vipulgupta2048) <a href="https://twitter.com/vipulgupta2048/status/1177007858958753793?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 25, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> 

## Workshops Galore

> The first day of the React India was all about workshops and connecting with individuals. I met professionals from Accenture, Verizon, Paperphile and made new connections while touring the amazing property of Planet Hollywood. It was a beach conference, why not enjoy it?. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first day of the React India was all about workshops and connecting with individuals. I met professionals from Accenture, Verizon, Paperphile and made new connections while touring the amazing property of Planet Hollywood. It was a beach conference, why not enjoy it?
```

> There were many workshops happening that day, most notably of Siddharth's about Building your first Design System: from scratch to production and Vladmir Novik's workshop about Practical ReasonML for React devs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many workshops were happening that day, most notably of Siddharth's about Building your first Design System: from scratch to production and Vladimir Novik's workshop about Practical ReasonML for React devs.
```

You sure his name is not spelled Vladimir?

Author: Extremely accurate. Thanks!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-lang="en" data-dnt="true"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/aravindballa?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@aravindballa</a> joining us from Hyderabad at <a href="https://twitter.com/react_india?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@react_india</a>, working at an awesome startup, <a href="https://twitter.com/paperpile?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@paperpile</a> where they harness <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/React?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#React</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/extjs?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#extjs</a> to help researchers write better. Check them out! <a href="https://t.co/5kOEYHcVYC">pic.twitter.com/5kOEYHcVYC</a></p>&mdash; Vipul Gupta 🐣 (@vipulgupta2048) <a href="https://twitter.com/vipulgupta2048/status/1177098931433459713?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 26, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

## Tell us more about the conference

> The conference was extremely well organized. I have seen almost nothing like it, the entire main hall where the single track conference took place was made out of German hanger tent, completely waterproof, Air-conditioned and was located out in the open. There were community talks, quizzes, games, company stalls and even an after party where [Ken Wheeler](https://twitter.com/ken_wheeler) performed remotely! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The conference was extremely well organized. I have seen almost nothing like it, the entire main hall where the single-track conference took place was made out of German hanger tent, completely waterproof, Air-conditioned and was located out in the open. There were community talks, quizzes, games, company stalls and even an after-party where [Ken Wheeler](https://twitter.com/ken_wheeler) performed remotely! 
```

> The conference was extremely well organized. I have seen almost nothing like it, the entire main hall where the single track conference took place was made out of German hanger tent, completely waterproof, Air-conditioned and was located out in the open. There were community talks, quizzes, games, company stalls and even an after party where [Ken Wheeler](https://twitter.com/ken_wheeler) performed remotely! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The conference was extremely well organized. I have seen almost nothing like it, the entire main hall where the single-track conference took place was made out of German hanger tent, completely waterproof, Air-conditioned and was located out in the open. There were community talks, quizzes, games, company stalls and even an after-party where [Ken Wheeler](https://twitter.com/ken_wheeler) performed remotely! 
```

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-dnt="true"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Curious cases of <a href="https://twitter.com/GraphQL?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@graphql</a> by <a href="https://twitter.com/dabit3?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@dabit3</a> as he guides us through future ways of web and mobile application development with serverless, GraphQL transform Library and AWS. <br><br>He works as a <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/DevRel?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#DevRel</a> for <a href="https://twitter.com/awscloud?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@awscloud</a> <a href="https://t.co/S1jSmzsoiD">pic.twitter.com/S1jSmzsoiD</a></p>&mdash; Vipul Gupta 🐣 (@vipulgupta2048) <a href="https://twitter.com/vipulgupta2048/status/1177453791840354304?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

GraphQL is much more than efficiently pulling data, and I am glad Nader's talk helped make the case for it as he showcased the powers of AWS Amplify as well as some awesome problems he solved with GraphQL. 

> Moving on, I took a break from GraphQL and attended talks by [Ives van Hoorne]() about building [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io

Reviewer 2: Iven Van Hoorne's link is not there

Author: Added :100:

> ), and React for teenagers by my roomate, Yash Gupta. Both very inspirational on how to build products for everyone and contributing back to the community. You all should really try CodeSandbox, it's like VsCode but online and more flexible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
), and React for teenagers by my roommate, Yash Gupta. Both very inspirational on how to build products for everyone and contributing back to the community. You all should really try CodeSandbox, it's like VsCode but online and more flexible. 
```

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-dnt="true"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">First picture is is off <a href="https://twitter.com/yashguptaz?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@yashguptaz</a> preparing for his session.<br><br>The other one, is the youngest speaker (Just 16) at <a href="https://twitter.com/react_india?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@react_india</a> giving his session to help teenagers join the <a href="https://twitter.com/reactjs?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@reactjs</a> community. <a href="https://t.co/S0Ownxdipi">pic.twitter.com/S0Ownxdipi</a></p>&mdash; Vipul Gupta 🐣 (@vipulgupta2048) <a href="https://twitter.com/vipulgupta2048/status/1177521013799579648?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 27, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

## Community is where the heart is

> Open-Source was a general theme behind the conference, where people talked from how we can build more inclusive communities to releasing new frameworks for blogging platforms to conflict resolution to this amazing quote by Carolyn in her talk about "Intitutive tooling". 

Reviewer 2: what tooling? intuitive maybe?

Author: Didn't get your comment.

Reviewer 2: 'Intitutive' is probably misspelled

Author: Good catch, fixed now.

> "We mistake familiarity for simplicity" - Carolyn Stransky

> She argues on the fact that we developers, once we are fluent with a framework/technology, we end up introducing it as "simple". While its simple for you now it might not be to a newcomer due to a steep learning curve or due to improper documentation. ([Picked up from source](https://dev.to/kay_2695px/react-india-2019-1goa))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
She argues on the fact that we developers, once we are fluent with a framework/technology, end up introducing it as "simple". While its simple for you now, it might not be to a newcomer due to a steep learning curve or due to improper documentation. ([Picked up from source](https://dev.to/kay_2695px/react-india-2019-1goa))
```

> I loved [Jason Lengstorf](https://twitter.com/jlengstorf)'s talk as he asks the question **Is open-source really open?**. He highlights several issues, he saw with his time at Gatsby and simple principles that communiites and corporations can follow to eliminate those problems and be supportive towards all it contributors. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I loved [Jason Lengstorf](https://twitter.com/jlengstorf)'s talk as he asks the question **Is open-source really open?**. He highlights several issues he saw with his time at Gatsby and simple principles that communities and corporations can follow to eliminate those problems and be supportive of all its contributors. 
```

> I loved [Jason Lengstorf](https://twitter.com/jlengstorf)'s talk as he asks the question **Is open-source really open?**. He highlights several issues he observed and resolved at the time of his working at Gatsby. Simple principles that communites and corporations can follow to eliminate those problems and be supportive of all it contributors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I loved [Jason Lengstorf](https://twitter.com/jlengstorf)'s talk as he asks the question **Is open-source really open?**. He highlights several issues he observed and resolved at the time of his working at Gatsby. Simple principles that communities and corporations can follow to eliminate those problems and be supportive of their contributors.
```

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/5sec?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#5sec</a> summary<br>How make <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/OpenSource?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#OpenSource</a> more open? Not just by saying, but taking action.<br><br>- Invest in onboarding for new contributors.<br>- Fix your representation, by putting money where your mouth is.<br>- Show gratitude in meaningful ways<br>- Build trust &amp; safety <a href="https://t.co/RFtFjFfOqr">pic.twitter.com/RFtFjFfOqr</a></p>&mdash; Vipul Gupta 🐣 (@vipulgupta2048) <a href="https://twitter.com/vipulgupta2048/status/1177812220186521600?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">September 28, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

> I had the most insightful discussions with folks from the community, including this one talk from [Tanvi Bhakta](https://twitter.com/tanvibhakta_) on buildiing healthier, more inclusive workplace culture. She also is working on an awesome project, that you all should check out and support. it's called [Desi Deck of Dames](https://desideckofdames.com/) and it's awesome!!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I had the most insightful discussions with folks from the community, including this one talk from [Tanvi Bhakta](https://twitter.com/tanvibhakta_) on building a healthier, more inclusive workplace culture. She is also working on an awesome project, that you all should check out and support. it's called [Desi Deck of Dames](https://desideckofdames.com/) and it's awesome!!
```
